[MUSIC]
Now that we have set up linear
programming relaxation for
the problem and
seen a geometric interpretation,
we need to figure out how to round
the solution of the LP relaxation.
So, how to round?
Geometrically, this can be
seen as the following problem.
Let's take the case k equal to 3,
3-way cut.
We want to partition
the triangle into three areas.
One for vertex (0, 0, 1),
one for vertex (1, 0,
0), and one for vertex (0, 1, 0).
Remember, every graph vertex is
embedded onto the triangle and
the three terminals are mapped to
the three corners of the triangle.
So, what we will do is partition
the triangle into three areas.
Every vertex that is embedded
in the first area there,
the black vertices,
will go with terminal a1.
The red vertices will go with terminal a3,
and
the green vertices will
go with terminal a2.
So what happens when we do this?
This defines a partition of the vertices
into three sets, one for each terminal.
And then we have the corresponding cost,
which is the total cost of the edges
that cross that are dichromatic whose
endpoints have different colors.
For example, edge uv there,
u is associated to a1, v to a2.
u is black, v is green,
they have different colors.
So after we do this partition, we'll
have to pay cuv, the cost of edge uv.
So a good rounding is a small
cost choice of partition of
the triangle into three areas.
So, how to think about this?
Remember, the LP relaxation can be seen
as placing the vertices in the triangle,
so as to minimize the lengths of
the edge projections on the sides.
Here, it is convenient to define
the distance between two vertices as
one half of the l1 distance
between their embedding.
One half of the l1 distance between xu and
xv.
Why one half?
Because if you look at the terminals,
the l1 distance between xa1 and
xa3, for example,
is 2 one half of that is 1.
So these two vertices
are a distance exactly 1.
Those are distance exactly 1, and so on.
So solving the LP relaxation,
what we have done is we have found
an embedding of the vertices on the
triangle with the terminals at the corners
to minimize the sum over every edge
of cuv times the distance of uv.
With this now we need to
figure out how to round.
Let's think a little bit more about this.
Let's think about projections.
So, consider vertex x, its projection onto
this side of a triangle
has coordinates x3,
the third coordinate is unchanged because
this is parallel to the bottom side.
0, because the second coordinate
is 0 because it's on this edge
away from this vertex.
And then, since the sum of
the three coordinates is 1,
the first coordinate must be 1- x3.
(1- x3, 0, x3), that's a projection here.
Similarly, the projection up on
this edge is (0, x2, 1- x2).
And on the bottom edge, (x1, 1- x1, 0).
So what we can see is that the distance
between x prime and y prime,
the two projections of x and
y on the bottom edge is just |x1- y1|.
And d(u, v) = one half of
the l1 distance between x and
y, (|x1- y1| + |x2- y2| + |x3- y3|).
That is one half (d(x prime,
y prime) + d(x double prime,
y double prime) + d(x triple prime,
y triple prime).
Now what do we do?
The hardest thing is not to get confused
between all of these factors of two and
factors of one half,
that come in all over the place.
What we're going to do is use some balls,
balls in the l1 metric.
Consider the ball centered at
vertex a1 and of radius r.
For example, let's take r = 0.7,
about 70% of the way from a1 to a3.
Or from a1 to a2.
Okay, what is this ball?
Well, it's bounded by a line
that is parallel to the third
side of the triangle, so
here it is, this green area.
B(a1, r) = {u : d(a1,
u) is less than or equal to r,
which is also this part of the big,
purple triangle.
How are we going to use this?
Well, intuitively.
If a vertex is close to a1,
then it should go with a1.
If it's close to a2, it should go with a2.
If it's close to a3, it should go with a3.
So we're going to basically
give to a1 the vertices
that are close enough to a1 that are in
the ball centered at a1 and of radius r.
The problem is that we cannot do this for
all vertices simultaneously,
all three terminals.
So we need to do this in some order.
And also, the other problem is
what should be the value of r?
What value should we choose for
our radius, r?
We don’t know the answer to
either of these questions.
We don’t know in what order we
should consider the terminals.
We don’t know which value
we should choose for r.
So when you don’t know,
what is the solution?
Try to do it randomly.
Okay, so let's start with terminal a3.
Pick a random r,
assign all the vertices in the ball,
centered at a3 and of radius r to a3.
So, a3 is up there.
The balls of radius r
are limited by a horizontal
line,t his is when r is close to 0.
That's when r is close to 1.
You cut at r,
you take the green rectangle and
all the vertices in there,
they're going to go with a3.
So, let's look at the possibilities,
if we think about the particular
pair of vertices, uv.
Probably linked by an edge
in the underlying graph.
If r is small, if r is smaller
than the distance from v to a3,
here in this example observe that
v is closer to a3 than u is.
If r is less than
the distances from v to a3 and
from u to a3, then this ball
does not catch either v or u.
That's the first case.
Second case.
If r is between the distance
from v to a3 and
the distance from u to a3, greater than
the min, but smaller than the max,
then this ball contains v, but not u.
What this means is that when we assign
the vertices in this ball to terminal a3,
then vertex v will go to terminal a3 but
not vertex u.
Vertex u will go to one
of the other terminals.
And f4, if there's an edge between u and
v, this edge will go between different
parts, and will count in the cut.
And so we'll have to pay cuv.
Third case.
Third case, if r is big.
If r is bigger than the distance from u
to a3, bigger than both of the distances.
Then both vertices u and
v are inside the ball, so
both of them will get assigned to a3,
so they have the same color.
And so, if there's a net between them,
this edge will not be dichromatic.
Both of its vertices will
be in the same part, and so
we will not pay the cost cuv of edge uv.
So, what do we do with this?
What do we do with this?
Let's look at these probabilities.
The probability that the first
case happens, that neither u nor
v are in this ball.
That's the probability that the random
r that we picked is less than dv a3.
What is the range of r?
r ranges from 0 to 1.
So the property that r is less than d(a3,
v) is exactly the distance from v to a3.
The priority of a second case
is the probability that r
falls between d(a3, u) and d(a3, v).
So it's the difference between these two
distances, which is also the difference
between the third coordinates of u and
v, |u3- v3|.
Finally, the probability that the ball
contains both, the third case,
is the remainder 1- d(a3, u).
So these are the probabilities
of the three cases.
How do we use this for rounding?
What we're going to do is, since we do not
know how to assign vertices to terminals,
in what order to do it, we will
consider terminals in random order.
We pick a random permutation,
sigma 1, sigma 2, sigma 3,
among all six possibilities,
random uniform.
Probability one-sixth, one-sixth,
one-sixth, one-sixth, one-sixth.
Here it is, a sigma(1),
a sigma(2), a sigma(3).
How do we assign the vertex u
to one of the three terminals?
First, first priority, a sigma(1).
If u is in the ball,
centered at a sigma(1) and
of radius r, this ball here.
Then we assign u to terminal a sigma(1),
and we're done with the assignment of u.
What if not?
If not, we try again with a sigma(2).
We look at the ball centered
at a sigma(2) and of radius r,
and if it's in there,
we assign it to a sigma(2).
And otherwise we are gonna
have one terminal left,
we'll assign it to a sigma(3).
So that is the randomized rounding.
That is the way in which we assign every
vertex to one of our three terminals.
We use the geometric embedding,
the geometric interpretation,
to decide how to round
the solution of our LP relaxation.
So here's the Full Algorithm for
3-way cut.
First, we solve the LP relaxation.
In other words, we embed for
vertices in the triangle.
Then, we pick a random
permutation of the terminals.
To the first terminal in the permutation,
we assign all vertices in the ball
centered at the terminal and of radius r,
where r is random uniform between [0, 1].
Then, among all unassigned
vertices not yet
assigned, we assign all the ones in the
ball centered at the second terminal, and
of radius r, to that second terminal.
Finally, we assign to the third
terminal all remaining vertices.
That's the algorithm with
which we will soon analyze.
So, the algorithm will use this LP
relaxation which I rewrite again here.
So it can be written here for
k general, not just k = 3.
So here I write it more mathematically and
I give to you for
k not just equal to 3, but k general.
LP relaxation,
we embed the vertices in a k-simplex
with the terminals at the corners.
So a triangle, if k equals 3, tetrahedron.
If k equals 4, and so on.
Define by xi greater than or
equal to 0, sum of the xi = 1.
The LP relaxation can be seen as minimize
the weighted sum of distances between
vertices that are end points of edges,
such that u is embedded in the k-simplex
for every vertex u of the graph.
Then, we pick a random
ordering of are k terminals,
we pick a random r in [0, 1],
our k terminals are at the k
corners of our k-simplex.
And finally, for i going from 1 to k- 1,
we assign to the case terminal,
to the i terminal in the random order,
all not yet
assigned vertices that belong to the ball
centered at a sigma(i) and of radius r.
The remaining vertices are assigned to
the last terminal in the random ordering.
That's the algorithm.
So, what remains to be done?
It remains to analyze this algorithm
to see the quality of approximation.